Now the next thing I want to talk about is the reward is so these other packages that you've put together
for potential backers to back.
Right.
So here's a really interesting graph from Kickstarter.
It looks that out of all of that data out of all of their campaigns one of the most popular TOS in terms
of how many people are pledging for it and what are the tears in terms of how many dollars how much
money they're bringing in to the Kickstarter platform.
So you can see that around the $25 Mark is where the most popular pledges occur.
That means a large number of backers are pledging for that particular item.
But then if you look at around the hundred dollar org that's the tier where most of the money that's
coming to Kickstarter is coming from.
So think about it really carefully.
If you have a team that's $25 you might get a lot of people backing it.
But at the end of the day the amount you're going to receive is going to be less than if you went for
a slightly higher reward price.
Even if you had lower popularity this is the percentage of total reward dollars contributed to Kickstarter
for all the projects that they saw and the $100 mark.
That's where most of the money was coming through for Kickstarter.
Which means it's probably going to be true for your campaign as well.
So think about having prices that hit both of those marks.
So maybe having your main product hit up the $100 mark and having a smaller product or some sort of
light version that hits the $25 a bag Now of course those prices depend entirely on your project if
your project is a digital app then it doesn't really make sense for it to be priced to $100 if your
project is however maybe a watch or razor then maybe $100 is actually too low.
It really depends on your actual project.
But a good piece of advice always is don't price yourself too low.
Now another thing about reward packages is that you don't want to have too many.
So if you went into the shop and on the rail there's only two items of clothing it's very easy to pick
which one I want to buy.
Right.
Maybe I like the stripey shirt done but if you add another shirt to the rag and then you add another
one.
Now you've got four to choose from.
And it's kind of tricky you know do I like the stripey shirt more than the yellow jumper.
But do I like it more than the red hoodie.
And it gets more and more complicated as you add more variables into the mix.
So trying to go for the least number of packages as you can to avoid this kind of decision paralysis
where people don't actually pledge for anything at all because they don't know which tier to go for.
Now as we mentioned previously in the algorithms section you want to have a low tier pledge.
So that's a $1 up to $5 pledge and that's usually something like a thank you email or putting their
name on a on your website to publicly thank them.
Well basically some sort of small touch that shows your appreciation for their support and then the
next year is the $25 pledge.
Now it tends to be that lot of people like to put merchandise in the $25.
So get a branded cup or get a branded T-shirt.
But actually actually merchandise can actually be quite expensive and especially if you're talking about
clothing because you're going to have to order clothes in small medium and large at the least.
And if you're creating women's sizes then it's even more complicated.
So it can actually cost you a lot more than what you're getting in for that tiered pledge.
So if you're creating a tech product you don't want to get into the business of merchandising t shirt
and sizing.
It's just very very complicated.
So my advice is try to keep the $25 something that is cheap and reproduceable something that doesn't
require to be delivered to somebody because Wal-Mart and us is kind of cool and everybody likes swag
creating the products.
Sorting out the different sizes.
Shipping it can be a huge headache.
So maybe something that is dishful maybe something that can be automated will be a benefit for that
$25 here.
Now the next tier you really have to think about is you are $99 or $100 Tim.
And this as we saw earlier on is the tier that's going to bring you the most money.
Even though it's not going to be the largest number of backers.
So usually what people tend to do for this particular price mark is to put their main product so the
main thing that they're selling on Kickstarter at this time.
So for Kanno it was their entire kind of kit.
Right.
And even if your product is much cheaper if it's a digital product like ours try to have something that
addresses this Mark.
So even if your product is sold for $60 you might want to package two of them together and make a duo
pack for $100.
Basically this is a tale that you don't want to miss out on.
Now the next big debate is to earlybird or to not earlybird.
And there's a lot of debate around this topic in the Kickstarter and crowdfunding communities because
essentially what you're trying to do with an early bird reward here is you're trying to create artificial
scarcity that you're saying that you only have this amount of time to pledge here before it disappears
or there's only a limited number of this particular product that you can pledge for.
And looking back at past case studies for certain campaigns it worked really really well.
But for others it didn't do so well.
So there was an interview with the creators of O M G.
Jellyfish.
You can have a acquited is pretty cool actually.
What they did was that their early bird too was $125 where they can get a product at the early bird
price.
And that was quite a lot of incentive because the next bracket up was $175 and that particular tier
was limited in terms of the number of backers so the number of people who can actually pledge for it
and once it filled up 88 backers it was no longer available to buy.
And the problem is that during the campaign they actually had a lot of press.
They were featured on Boing Boing and a lot of tech blogs which got them a lot of traffic to their campaign.
Now the problem was that once the early bird tier was souped up the next tier was $175 which is a huge
jump from one to five.
Think about it if yesterday you could have gotten something for $125 and today you have to pay 175.
It was not a lot of incentives to actually pledge.
Right.
What the crater later did was actually to create a tear in between which helped to some extent her campaign.
And they actually regretted having that earlybird here because they felt that without it they could
have gotten more pledges overall.
So the thing to note is that if you are going to go for an early bird reward here to keep the difference
between the early bird here and the the one that is not earlybird of late bird have that price difference
be small.
So something like $5 or $10 difference.
That means that even if the early bird reward is gone people won't feel too bad that you know they're
paying maybe $5 more $10 more.
So as I mentioned before a really good way of creating Tiss is actually bundling two products together.
So for example if you look at purple pillows campaign they actually have two purple pillows or one for
nine which is I think something like a $10 discount from buying one of them separately.
And you know most people have a partner most people have friends.
Right.
Because a lot of people purchasing things on Kickstarter as gifts because they make pretty innovative
and unique gifts for Christmas or for birthdays.
So think about having a do a package and your reward is and is really really important that you show
people what's contained in those waters instead of forcing them to read through every single reward
his text to figure out what they each are and compare the mentally ill just create some graphics.
Have a look at the image section earlier on we spoke about how to use Kanva to create different reward
to image graphics.
And that way you can see at a glance what you might want and what your reward has include.